{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch31505\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi31507\deflang16393\deflangfe16393\themelang16393\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}
{\f37\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0302020204030204}Calibri Light;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1274\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f1275\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f1277\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f1278\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f1279\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f1280\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f1281\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f1282\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f1614\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Cambria Math CE;}{\f1615\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Math Cyr;}{\f1617\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Math Greek;}{\f1618\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Math Tur;}
{\f1621\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Math Baltic;}{\f1622\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Cambria Math (Vietnamese);}{\f1644\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f1645\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\f1647\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f1648\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\f1649\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\f1650\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}
{\f1651\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\f1652\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri Light CE;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Light Cyr;}{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Light Greek;}
{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Light Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31533\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri Light (Hebrew);}{\fhimajor\f31534\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri Light (Arabic);}
{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Light Baltic;}{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri Light (Vietnamese);}{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}
{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\fhiminor\f31573\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\fhiminor\f31574\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}{\*\defchp \fs24\kerning2\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505 }{\*\defpap 
\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl278\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl278\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang16393\langfe16393\kerning2\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp16393\langfenp16393 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl278\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs24\lang16393\langfe16393\kerning2\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp16393\langfenp16393 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5197674\rsid7800163\rsid12462334}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0
\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\author Sivanagajyothi Kodali}{\operator Sivanagajyothi Kodali}{\creatim\yr2025\mo7\dy25\hr19\min56}{\revtim\yr2025\mo7\dy25\hr19\min56}{\version2}{\edmins0}
{\nofpages3}{\nofwords2895}{\nofchars16508}{\nofcharsws19365}{\vern123}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\rsidroot12462334 \nouicompat \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\nofeaturethrottle1\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs24\lang16393\langfe16393\kerning2\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp16393\langfenp16393 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
                       AN
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37          INTERNSHIP REPORT 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37                      ON
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ENCHANTED WINGS : MARVELS OF BUTTERFLY SPECIES
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 MARVELS OF BUTTERFLY SPECIES
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ABSTRACT:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Butterflies are one of nature\hich\f37 \rquote \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
s most captivating and ecologically important insects. This project, Marvels of Butterfly Species, explores the rich diversity, unique life cycles, and fascinating adaptations of butterflies found across the world. From vibrant wing patterns to complex be
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 haviors like mimicry and migration, butterflies showcase the marvels of natural evolution.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The study highlights the role of butterflies as pollinators and bioindicators, emphasizing their importance in maintaining ecological balance. It also addresses the t\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
hreats they face due to habitat loss, pollution, and climate change. Through research, visual documentation, and observation, this project aims to raise awareness about butterfly conservation and the need to protect biodiversity for future generations.

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 INTRODUCTION:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
Butterflies are among the most admired insects in the natural world, known for their vibrant colors, graceful flight, and fascinating transformations. Found on every continent except Antarctica, butterflies play crucial roles in ecosystems as po
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 llinators and as indicators of environmental health. Their presence and population trends often reflect the state of biodiversity in an area.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 This project, Marvels of Butterfly Species, aims to explore the incredible variety of butterfly species, their life cycles, habitats, and survival strategies. From the tiny Blue Pygmy to the majestic Queen Alexandra
\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37 s Birdwing, each species exhibits uniqu\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 e adaptations that help it thrive in its environment. The study also investigates how butterflies use mimicry, camo\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
uflage, and migration to protect themselves and reproduce.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 By understanding these remarkable creatures and the challenges they face\hich\f37 \emdash \loch\f37 such as habitat destruction, pollution, and climate change\hich\f37 \emdash \loch\f37 
this project seeks to promote awareness and encourage conservation efforts. Butterflies are more than just beautiful insect\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 s; they are vital parts of our planet\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37 s ecological balance.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs44 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs44\lang1033\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp1033\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 MOTIVATION:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang1033\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp1033\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
The inspiration behind this project stems from a deep fascination with the beauty, diversity, and ecological importance of but\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
terflies. While often appreciated for their colorful wings and graceful flight, butterflies represent much more than visual appeal\hich\f37 \emdash \loch\f37 
they are key players in pollination, part of the food web, and sensitive indicators of environmental change.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
Observing the rapid decline in butterfly populations due to habitat destruction, climate change, and pollution sparked a desire to learn more and raise awareness. Many people are unaware of the critical roles butterflies play in maintaining healthy ecosys
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 tems. Through thi\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 s project, we aim to highlight their significance and share the marvels of their life cycles, behaviors, and adaptations.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
By studying and showcasing butterfly species from different regions, we hope to inspire curiosity, encourage environmental responsibility, and promote conservation efforts. Understanding and protecting butterflies is not just about saving a single group o
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 f insects\hich\f37 \emdash \loch\f37 it is about preserving the delicate balance of nature they help support.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang1033\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp1033\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 PROBLEM STATEMENT:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang1033\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp1033\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Despite their ecological importan\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
ce and striking beauty, butterfly species around the world are facing a significant decline in population due to human activities such as habitat destruction, pollution, pesticide use, and climate change. Many people remain unaware of the vital roles butt
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 erflies play in ecosystems\hich\f37 \emdash \loch\f37 as pollinators, indicators of environmental health, and contributors to biodiversity.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 There is a lack of awareness and understanding about the diversity, life cycles, and conservation needs of butterflies. Without proper knowledge\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 and action, many species are at risk of extinction, which could disrupt ecological balance and negatively impact plant reproduction and food chains.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
This project seeks to address the gap in awareness and education by exploring the diversity, adaptations, and ecological roles of butterfly species, while also emphasizing the urgent need for their protection and conservation.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 OBJECTIVIES &GOALS:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs40 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs40\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Objectives:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 1.To study the diversity of butterfly species across different habitats and regions.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 2.To understand th\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 e life cycle of butterflies, including the stages of metamorphosis.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 3.To explore the unique adaptations of butterflies, such as mimicry, camouflage, and migration.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 4.To examine the ecological roles of butterflies, particularly their role in pollination and as bioindicators.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 5.To identify major threats to butterfly populations, including habitat loss, pollution, and climate change.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs36\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Goals:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 1.Raise awareness about the importance of butterflies in maintaining ecological balance.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 2.Promote conservation efforts by educating others on how to protect butterfly habitats.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 3.Inspire interest in entomology and biodiversity among students and the community.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 4.Encourage sustainable practices that help support butterfly-friendly environments, such as planting native flowering plants and reducing pesticide use.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 LITERATURE SURVEY:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs40 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs40\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Literature Review:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Butterflies have long been studied for their ecological si\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
gnificance, vivid coloration, and complex life cycles. According to "Butterflies of the World" by Adrian Hoskins (2009), there are over 20,000 species of butterflies globally, each with unique adaptations to their environment. Researchers have emphasized 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 their role as pollinators and as indicators of environmental health (New, 1997), making them important subjects in ecological and conservation studies.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Studies such as Pollard & Yates (1993) have documented butterfly population trends over decades, showing \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
how environmental changes, such as habitat fragmentation and climate change, directly impact butterfly biodiversity. In tropical regions, butterfly diversity is often used as a measure of the overall health of forest ecosystems.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
Scientific journals like the Journal of Insect Conservation and Biological Conservation frequently publish studies on the decline of butterfly populations due to pesticides, monoculture farming, and urban development. Research highlights the need for habi
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 tat restoration, protection \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 of migratory routes, and the planting of native host plants to support larval stages.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs40 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs40\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Survey:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
To gather local insights, a survey was conducted among students, teachers, and community members to understand awareness levels about butterflies and their conservation. Key findings include:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 85% of participants recognize butterflies mainly for their beauty but are unaware of their ecological roles.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 60% could identify only one or two common butterfly species.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 70% were unaware that certain butterfly species are enda\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ngered or at risk.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 90% expressed interest in learning more about how to protect butterflies and create butterfly-friendly environments.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
These findings support the need for more education and community involvement in butterfly conservation efforts. The survey also helped identify gaps in knowledge that this project aims to address through awareness, documentation, and recommendations for h
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 abitat preservation.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 SCOPE &LIMITATIONS:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs40 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs40\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Scope:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 This project focuses on the diversity, characteristics, and ecological ro\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
les of various butterfly species, with particular attention to their life cycles, behaviors, and adaptations such as mimicry, camouflage, and migration.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 It aims to raise awareness about the importance of butterfly conservation, highlighting threats such as habitat loss, pesticide use, and climate change.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The study includes a review of existing literature, field observations (if applicable), and community surveys to understand public awareness and attitudes toward butterflies.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The project also promotes envir\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 onmentally friendly practices, such as planting butterfly-friendly gardens and reducing chemical use in the environment.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs40 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs40\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Limitations:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
Geographical Constraints: The study may be limited to local or regional butterfly species due to time and travel restrictions.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Time Constraints: Limited time may restrict long-term observation of butterfly life cycles or migratory behavior.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Access to Resources: Limited access to high-quality equipment (e.g., macro cameras, microscopes) or scientific databases may affect the d\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 epth of species identification or data analysis.

\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Seasonal Limitations: Butterfly populations vary with seasons, which may limit field study opportunities during off-peak months.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Sample Size for Survey: The survey sample may not fully represent broader public opinion due to a limited number of respondents.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 SYSTEM DESIGN:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
The system design for the Marvels of Butterfly Species project involves a structured approach to collecting, analyzing, and presenting data about butterfly species. The project is divided into various interconnected modules that work together to fulfill t
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 he project\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37 s objectives.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 1. Data Collection Module:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Literature Review: Gather information from books, journals, and scientific articles about butterfly species, their biology, and ecological roles.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Field Observations: Visit local parks, gardens, or natural \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 areas to observe and document butterfly species using photographs and field notes.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Surveys and Questionnaires: Conduct surveys among students, teachers, and community members to assess awareness and gather opinions.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 2. Identification & Classification Module:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Identify butterfly species using field guides or mobile apps (e.g., iNaturalist or Butterfly Identification apps).
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Classify them based on family, habitat, and notable features (e.g., color, wing shape, behavior).
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 3. Analysis Module:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Analyze the data col\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 lected from field observations and surveys.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Identify patterns in butterfly distribution, behavior, and threats.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Compare local findings with global trends from literature.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 4. Awareness & Conservation Module:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Create posters, presentations, or digital content to spread awareness about butterfly conservation.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Propose solutions such as creating butterfly gardens or reducing pesticide use in local areas.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Share findings with the school/community to promote involvement.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 5. Documentation & Reporting Module:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Compile \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 all research, observations, and findings into a final project report.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Include visuals like species charts, photographs, lifecycle diagrams, and survey results.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Present conclusions and actionable recommendations.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Flowchart of System Design (Text Representation):
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 sql
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Copy
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Edit
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Start
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Literature Review }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8594\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  Field Observation }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8594\'3f}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  Survey
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37                      }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37                   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Species Identification and Classification
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data Analysis and Interpretation
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Awareness Campaigns and Conservation Proposals
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Documentation and Presentation
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 End
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 UML DIAGRAM:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           |    }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Researcher}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34     |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34              /   |    |    \\}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34             /    |    |     \\}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34            \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      
\loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34     \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34       \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 +---------------+  +----------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Collect}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  |  | }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Identify}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Species}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 +---------------+  +----------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34            \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34             
\loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      +----------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      |     }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Analyze}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      |}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      +----------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34            \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      +----------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      |   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Present}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Findings}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34    |}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      +----------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34            \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 +----------------+     +---------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 | }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Conduct}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Survey}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  |     | }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Raise}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Awareness}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34      |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 +----------------+     +---------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34            \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                   
\loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8595\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34        +-----------------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34        | }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Promote}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Conservation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Efforts}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
|}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34        +-----------------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Public}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 /}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Community}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                   \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8593\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34        (}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Interacts}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 with}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Surveys}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 and}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Awareness}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 )}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +--------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Teacher}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 /}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Mentor}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  |}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34           +--------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                   \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8593\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34          (}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Guides}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 and}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Reviews}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Work}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 )}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 DATA FLOW DIAGRAM:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                           +-------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                           |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 External}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Sources}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
  |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                           | (}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Books}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Journals}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 ,  |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                           |   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Online}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
)     |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                           +---------+---------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Collect}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
    |<----------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                         \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34    | (}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Literature}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
 &    |                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            | }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Field}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Observation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 )|                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +--------+---------+                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     |                           |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            |}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +------------------+                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            | }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Identify}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Species}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
 |                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +--------+---------+                 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     |                           |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                     }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            |}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                          +-----------------------+\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34              |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                          |    }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Analyze}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
       |             |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                          +-----------+-----------+             |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                      |                         }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Survey}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                      }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                             ^}
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +-----------------------+            |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            |   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Conduct}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Survey}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
      |------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                            +-----------+-----------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                        \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                        }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              +-------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Awareness}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  &      |}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              | }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Conservation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34       |}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              +---------+---------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                        |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                                        }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 v
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              +-------------------+}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              |  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Present}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Findings}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34   |}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34                              +-------------------+
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 MODULES&FEATURES:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 1. Data Collection Module
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Field Observation: Document butterfly species in local environments using photos and notes.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Literature Review: Gather detailed information on butterfly species, life cycles, and ecological roles from books, journals, and online sources.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Survey Distribution: Design and distribute questionnaires to assess public awareness about butterflies.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 2. Species Identification Module
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Species Classification: Identify butterfly species using field guides and mobile apps.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Categorization: Group butterflies based on family, \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 habitat, wing patterns, and behaviors.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Documentation: Maintain a database or log of identified species with descriptions and images.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 3. Data Analysis Module
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Population Trends: Analyze butterfly sightings and survey data to understand distribution and population health.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Threat Assessment: Identify environmental threats impacting butterflies such as habitat loss or pollution.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Pattern Recognition: Study behaviors such as migration and mimicry for ecological insights.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 4. Awareness & Conservation Module
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Educatio\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 nal Content: Develop posters, presentations, and digital materials to raise awareness.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Community Engagement: Organize workshops or campaigns promoting butterfly-friendly practices.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Conservation Recommendations: Propose actionable steps like planting native flowers or reducing pesticide use.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 5. Reporting & Presentation Module
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Project Report: Compile findings into a comprehensive document including visuals.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Presentation Preparation: Create slideshows or exhibits for sharing research results with schools or co\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 mmunity groups.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Feedback Collection: Gather feedback from viewers and participants to improve future initiatives.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 TECHNOLOGY STACK:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 1. Research & Data Collection:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Mobile Apps:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 iNaturalist / Seek by iNaturalist \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  For identifying and recording butterfly species in the field.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Butterfly Identifier apps \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  Specialized apps for recognizing butterfly species.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Digital Camera / Smartphone Camera:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 For capturing high-quality images of butterflies and habitats.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Note-taking Apps:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Evernote / Microsoft OneNote \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  To organize field notes and observations digitally.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 2. Data Management & Analysis:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Spreadsheet Software:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Microsoft Excel / Google Sheets \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  For logging data, organizing survey responses, and basic statistical analysis.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Survey Tools:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Google Forms / Microsoft Forms \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  To design and distribute surveys and questionnaires.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 3. Documentation & Presentation:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Word Processing:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Microsoft Word / Google Docs \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  F\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 or compiling the project report and writing documentation.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Presentation Software:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Microsoft PowerPoint / Google Slides \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  To create presentations for sharing findings.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Design Tools:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Canva \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  For creating posters, infographics, and awareness materials.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Photo Editing:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Snapseed / Adobe Photoshop Express \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  To enhance photographs for better clarity and presentation.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 4. Reference & Research:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Online Databases & Libraries:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Google Scholar, ResearchGate \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  For accessing scientific papers and articles.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Encyclopedia of Li\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 fe (EOL), Butterflies of India \hich\f34 \emdash \loch\f34  For species-specific information.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 CONCLUSION:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
The Marvels of Butterfly Species project highlights the incredible diversity, beauty, and ecological importance of butterflies. Through detailed research and observation, we have gained a deeper understanding of their life cycles, adaptations, and the vit
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 al roles they play as pollinators and indicators of environmental health.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 This study also sheds light on the growing threats butterflies face, including habitat destruction, clim\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
ate change, and pollution. It emphasizes the urgent need for conservation efforts and public awareness to protect these delicate creatures and the ecosystems they support.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
By promoting butterfly-friendly practices and encouraging community involvement, we can help preserve butterfly populations for future generations. Ultimately, butterflies remind us of the delicate balance of nature and inspire us to protect biodiversity 
\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 in all its forms.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs48 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs48\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 FUTURE SCOPE:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 
The study of butterfly species offers many opportunities for further exploration and impact. Future work can expand the scope of this project in several ways:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Expanded Geographic Coverage:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Conducting surveys and field studies across different regions and ecosystems to document a wider variety of butterfly species and their habitats.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Long-term Monitoring:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Establishing butterfly monitoring programs to track population trends over multiple seasons or years, providing valuable data on environmental changes and \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 conservation outcomes.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Technological Integration:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Utilizing advanced technologies such as drone-based aerial surveys, AI-powered species identification, and GIS mapping to enhance data collection and analysis accuracy.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Educational Programs:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Developing comprehensive educational curriculums and interactive workshops for schools and communities to foster deeper understanding and appreciation of butterflies and biodiversity.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Habitat Restoration Projects:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Initiating butterfly garden projects, planting native flo\hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 ra, and restoring natural habitats to support butterfly populations and broader ecological health.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Citizen Science Engagement:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Encouraging public participation through citizen science platforms to increase data collection reach and raise awareness on a larger scale.
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Research on Climate Impact:
\par \hich\af34\dbch\af31505\loch\f34 Investigating the effects of climate change on butterfly migration patterns, breeding cycles, and survival to inform adaptive conservation strategies.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs32\lang9\langfe16393\kerning0\langnp9\insrsid7800163 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a
9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad
5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6
b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b0
0c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6
a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4f
c7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b6309512
0f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462
a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b
4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b
4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c9200000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f
7468656d65312e786d6cec59cd8b1bc915bf07f23f347d97f5d5ad8fc1f2a24fcfda33b6b164873dd648a5eef2547789aad28cc56208de532e81c026e49085bd
ed21842cecc22eb9e48f31d8249b3f22afaa5bdd5552c99e191c3061463074977eefd5afde7bf5de53d5ddcf5e26d4bbc05c1096f6fcfa9d9aefe174ce16248d
7afeb3d9a4d2f13d2151ba4094a5b8e76fb0f03fbbf7eb5fdd454732c609f6403e1547a8e7c752ae8eaa5531876124eeb0154ee1bb25e30992f0caa3ea82a34b
d09bd06aa3566b55134452df4b51026a1f2f97648ebd9952e9dfdb2a1f53784da5500373caa74a35b6243476715e5708b11143cabd0b447b3eccb3609733fc52
fa1e4542c2173dbfa6fffceabdbb5574940b517940d6909be8bf5c2e17589c37f49c3c3a2b260d823068f50bfd1a40e53e6edc1eb7c6ad429f06a0f91c569a71
b175b61bc320c71aa0ecd1a17bd41e35eb16ded0dfdce3dc0fd5c7c26b50a63fd8c34f2643b0a285d7a00c1feee1c3417730b2f56b50866fede1dbb5fe28685b
fa3528a6243ddf43d7c25673b85d6d0159327aec8477c360d26ee4ca4b144443115d6a8a254be5a1584bd00bc6270050408a24493db959e1259a43140f112567
9c7827248a21f056286502866b8ddaa4d684ffea13e827ed5174849121ad780113b137a4f87862cec94af6fc07a0d537206f7ffef9cdeb1fdfbcfee9cd575fbd
79fdf77c6eadca923b466964cafdf2dd1ffef3cd6fbd7ffff0ed2f5fff319b7a172f4cfcbbbffdeedd3ffef93ef5b0e2d2146ffff4fdbb1fbf7ffbe7dfffebaf
5f3bb4f7393a33e1339260e13dc297de5396c0021dfcf119bf9ec42c46c494e8a791402952b338f48f656ca11f6d10450edc00db767cce21d5b880f7d72f2cc2
d398af2571687c182716f094313a60dc6985876a2ec3ccb3751ab927e76b13f714a10bd7dc43945a5e1eaf579063894be530c616cd2714a5124538c5d253dfb1
738c1dabfb8210cbaea764ce99604be97d41bc01224e93ccc899154da5d03149c02f1b1741f0b7659bd3e7de8051d7aa47f8c246c2de40d4417e86a965c6fb68
2d51e252394309350d7e8264ec2239ddf0b9891b0b099e8e3065de78818570c93ce6b05ec3e90f21cdb8dd7e4a37898de4929cbb749e20c64ce4889d0f6394ac
5cd829496313fbb938871045de13265df05366ef10f50e7e40e941773f27d872f787b3c133c8b026a53240d4376beef0e57dccacf89d6ee8126157aae9f3c44a
b17d4e9cd131584756689f604cd1255a60ec3dfbdcc160c05696cd4bd20f62c82ac7d815580f901dabea3dc5027a25d5dcece7c91322ac909de2881de073bad9
493c1b9426881fd2fc08bc6eda7c0ca52e7105c0633a3f37818f08f480102f4ea33c16a0c308ee835a9fc4c82a60ea5db8e375c32dff5d658fc1be7c61d1b8c2
be04197c6d1948eca6cc7b6d3343d49aa00c9819822ec3956e41c4727f29a28aab165b3be596f6a62ddd00dd91d5f42424fd6007b4d3fb84ffbbde073a8cb77f
f9c6b10f3e4ebfe3566c25ab6b763a8792c9f14e7f7308b7dbd50c195f904fbfa919a175fa04431dd9cf58b73dcd6d4fe3ffdff73487f6f36d2773a8dfb8ed64
7ce8306e3b99fc70e5e3743265f3027d8d3af0c80e7af4b14f72f0d46749289dca0dc527421ffc08f83db398c0a092d3279eb838055cc5f0a8ca1c4c60e1228e
b48cc799fc0d91f134462b381daafb4a492472d591f0564cc0a1911e76ea5678ba4e4ed9223becacd7d5c16656590592e5782d2cc6e1a04a66e856bb3cc02bd4
6bb6913e68dd1250b2d721614c6693683a48b4b783ca48fa58178ce620a157f65158741d2c3a4afdd6557b2c805ae115f8c1edc1cff49e1f06200242701e07cd
f942f92973f5d6bbda991fd3d3878c69450034d8db08283ddd555c0f2e4fad2e0bb52b78da2261849b4d425b46377822869fc17974aad1abd0b8aeafbba54b2d
7aca147a3e08ad9246bbf33e1637f535c8ede6069a9a9982a6de65cf6f35430899395af5fc251c1ac363b282d811ea3717a211dcbccc25cf36fc4d32cb8a0b39
4222ce0cae934e960d122231f728497abe5a7ee1069aea1ca2b9d51b90103e59725d482b9f1a3970baed64bc5ce2b934dd6e8c284b67af90e1b35ce1fc568bdf
1cac24d91adc3d8d1797de195df3a708422c6cd795011744c0dd413db3e682c0655891c8caf8db294c79da356fa3740c65e388ae62945714339967709dca0b3a
faadb081f196af190c6a98242f8467912ab0a651ad6a5a548d8cc3c1aafb6121653923699635d3ca2aaa6abab39835c3b60cecd8f26645de60b53531e434b3c2
67a97b37e576b7b96ea74f28aa0418bcb09fa3ea5ea12018d4cac92c6a8af17e1a56393b1fb56bc776811fa07695226164fdd656ed8edd8a1ae19c0e066f54f9
416e376a6168b9ed2bb5a5f5adb979b1cdce5e40f2184197bba6526857c2c92e47d0104d754f92a50dd8222f65be35e0c95b73d2f3bfac85fd60d80887955a27
1c57826650ab74c27eb3d20fc3667d1cd66ba341e31514161927f530bbb19fc00506dde4f7f67a7cefee3ed9ded1dc99b3a4caf4dd7c5513d777f7f5c6e1bb7b
8f40d2f9b2d598749bdd41abd26df627956034e854bac3d6a0326a0ddba3c9681876ba9357be77a1c141bf390c5ae34ea5551f0e2b41aba6e877ba9576d068f4
8376bf330efaaff23606569ea58fdc16605ecdebde7f010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d65
2f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d36
3f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e
3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d985
0528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000000000000000000000
0000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00000000000000000000
000000300100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000000000000000000000000019020000
7468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c92000001600000000000000
000000000000d60200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b01000027000000
000000000000000000009d0a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000980b00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax376\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef0\lsdunhideuseddef0\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 5;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 9;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 header;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footer;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of figures;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope return;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation reference;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 line number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 page number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote text;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of authorities;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 macro;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 toa heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Closing;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Signature;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Message Header;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Salutation;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Date;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Note Heading;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Block Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 FollowedHyperlink;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Document Map;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Plain Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 E-mail Signature;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Top of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Bottom of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal (Web);\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Acronym;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Cite;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Code;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Definition;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Keyboard;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Preformatted;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Sample;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Typewriter;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Variable;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Table;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation subject;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 No List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Contemporary;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Elegant;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Professional;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Balloon Text;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Theme;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;
\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;
\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;\lsdpriority41 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 1;\lsdpriority42 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 2;\lsdpriority43 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 3;\lsdpriority44 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 4;
\lsdpriority45 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 5;\lsdpriority40 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table Light;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 2;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 3;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 3;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 4;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 4;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 6;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 3;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 3;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 3;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 4;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 4;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Mention;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hashtag;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Unresolved Mention;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Link;}}{\*\datastore 01050000
02000000180000004d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e362e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffff0c6ad98892f1d411a65f0040963251e500000000000000000000000030d4
5c2b70fddb01feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}